June 15, 2014 -- The wxWidgets team is pleased to announce a
major new release of our open source framework for the development
of native cross-platform applications in C++.

wxWidgets 3.0.1 is a stable bug fix release in 3.0 branch and is
available at

        https://sourceforge.net/downloads/wxwindows/3.0.1/

and at our FTP mirror at

        ftp://ftp.wxwidgets.org/pub/3.0.1/

Please choose the archive format suitable for your platform, i.e. 7z
or ZIP for Windows platforms and tar.bz2 for the Unix systems
including OS X (all archives contain sources for all wxWidgets ports
but they use different line endings) and follow the instructions in
readme.txt file for installing it. Notice that if you decide to use
the Windows installer (.exe file) you still need to build wxWidgets
as only sources, not binaries, are installed.

We also provide the pre-built versions of wxMSW libraries for the
selected compilers at

        https://sourceforge.net/downloads/wxwindows/3.0.1/binaries/

Please see the README file there for the descriptions of the
individual files.


This release is perfectly compatible with 3.0.0 at both the source
(API) and binary (ABI) level and upgrading to it is strongly
recommended for all users of wxWidgets 3.0.0 as it contains more than
a hundred important bug fixes since it.

The most important user-visible changes are:

* In all ports:
 - wxHTML displays tables much faster now.
 - Double clicking wxGrid columns doesn't make them too small any more.
 - Fix bugs when dragging columns in wxGrid with hidden columns.
 - Loading ICO files with PNG data is now supported.

* In wxGTK:
 - Mouse wheel scrolling in wxListCtrl works again.
 - wxStaticBoxSizer contents is not truncated any more.
 - AUI panels may now be re-docked after floating them.

* In wxMSW:
 - wxBitmapComboBox works again and doesn't just remain blank.
 - Checkboxes in wxDataViewCtrl work again too now.
 - wxCheckListBox appears correctly when using large fonts.

* In wxOSX:
 - Cancelling choice selection in wxDataViewCtrl doesn't crash any more.
 - ShowModal() doesn't use quite as much CPU now.

There are also many other bug fixes, including many improvements to
alpha transparency handling in different places (mostly in wxMSW, but
also in wxGTK) and resource/memory leak fixes in all ports.

Finally, this release includes Visual Studio 2012 and 2013 projects for
building wxWidgets, in addition to the project files for the previous
versions already provided in 3.0.0 release.

Please see the changes.txt file in the "docs" subdirectory of
wxWidgets distribution or also available online at
https://sourceforge.net/projects/wxwindows/files/3.0.1/changes.txt
for more details and please read the "INCOMPATIBLE CHANGES" section
in its beginning for a brief description of changes if you are
upgrading from wxWidgets 2.8. For more details, please see
http://docs.wxwidgets.org/3.0.0/overview_changes_since28.html


We recommend that you upgrade to wxWidgets 3.0.1 if you already use
wxWidgets 3.0.0, the upgrade is completely transparent and doesn't
require any changes in the existing code. If you are still using
wxWidgets 2.8 or earlier, please consider updating to wxWidgets 3.0
to profit from all the new functionality.


We hope that you will enjoy using the new release!

Vadim Zeitlin, on behalf of wxWidgets development team.
